On September 18, 2020,
Medicane Ianos,
a rare Mediterranean cyclone, struck Greece
and flooded a Roma settlement in Mavrika,
just outside the city of Karditsa.
Local authorities worked
alongside emergency services to evacuate
over 1,000 Roma who lived there.
But a family of seven
who are studying with Jehovah’s Witnesses
were left behind.
It was raining hard,
and the floodwaters were rising quickly.
I took my wife by the hand
and carried my child on my back.
With great difficulty, we managed
to make it to a neighboring house.
We were unable to contact the authorities.
We were terrified
and had no option but to stay there.
We didn’t know what to do.
We were so scared and worried.
We had never experienced
anything like this before.
The floodwaters had risen a lot,
and we stood waiting for hours.
I asked my father to pray for us.
He did many times.
There were lots of people in the house,
both young and old.
They were afraid, and they were crying.
Video messages from the family
started to come through, asking for help.
We could see their fear.
We wanted to help them,
but there was no way for us to go there
because access was impossible.
All we could do was pray to Jehovah for them
and send messages of encouragement.
We were very distressed.
Children were crying.
I prayed to Jehovah,
begging him for peace of mind.
I threw all of my burdens
and anxiety of my heart on Jehovah.
Soon, I felt calm and had no anxiety.
I felt his spirit giving me strength
during the hours that followed until dawn.
The situation was very difficult.
They had suffered a lot,
and their clothes were dirty.
There was no way
that I could leave them there.
We were given a house to stay in.
We were able to calm down and sleep.
The brothers gave us food.
I thanked Jehovah for teaching us
and taking care of us.
He is our Savior.
When I attended the first meeting
after the flood, I felt calm again.
I tried to keep my routine as normal:
study, meetings, preparing comments.
I felt joy and contentment.
My legal documents, such as my ID,
were saved from the flood.
Our neighbors were not prepared.
But we, thanks to Jehovah’s direction,
had packed emergency bags.
About a week later,
we were able to return to Mavrika.
The houses were in terrible condition,
full of mud.
The Disaster Relief Committee
helped us immediately.
Brothers from 300 kilometers (190 mi) away
sent emergency supplies.
The brotherhood showed us love in practice.
They worked hard
and helped us because they love us.
I was deeply touched and found myself in awe.
We are united.
All of this brought
glory and praise to Jehovah.
When we went there to help,
the Roma neighbors were very surprised.
They asked if we could help them too.
We replied that we have to help
our family first, our brothers.
They were very puzzled
that we called our Roma brothers family
since we were not from their tribe.
Ephesians 4:16 finds a good application
in this story.
Just as every joint in the body offers help,
so did the brothers.
We all worked together
to provide help to our brothers in need.
Jehovah is teaching me and helping me.
I really trust in him.
He has blessed me personally.
I have seen how good he is to me.
In a miserable world, Jehovah brings me joy.
I know that he chooses
according to a person’s heart.
All glory belongs to Jehovah!